nix/.config/home-manager/README.md, before:

# Home Manager Configuration

This repository contains the Home Manager setup (flakes) for the user environment. It includes modular configuration for GUI (Hyprland), CLI tools, media, mail, secrets, and more.

- Agent guide (how to work in this repo): see AGENTS.md
- Coding/style rules for Nix modules: see STYLE.md
- Feature flags and options: modules/features.nix (with hy3/Hyprland compatibility assert)

Quick tasks (requires `just`):
- Format: `just fmt`
- Checks: `just check`
- Lint only: `just lint`
- Switch HM: `just hm-neg` or `just hm-lite`

Notes:
- Hyprland auto-reload is disabled; reload manually via hotkey.
- Quickshell Settings.json is ignored and must not be committed.
 - Hyprland config is split under modules/user/gui/hypr/conf:
   - bindings/*.conf: apps, media, notify, resize, tiling, tiling-helpers, wallpaper, misc
   - init.conf, rules.conf, workspaces.conf, autostart.conf (with concise section headers)
   - Files are symlinked into ~/.config/hypr via Home Manager.
 - Rofi: wrapper ~/.local/bin/rofi ensures theme lookup works (config-relative and XDG data themes).
   - Themes live in ~/.config/rofi and ~/.local/share/rofi/themes; Mod4+c uses the clip theme.

## Getting Started

- Prerequisites
  - Nix with flakes enabled (`nix --version` should work; set `experimental-features = nix-command flakes`).
  - Home Manager available (via flakes).
  - Optional: `just` for the convenience commands below.

- Clone and switch
  - Clone to your dotfiles path (assumed `~/.dotfiles`):
    - `git clone git@github.com:neg-serg/nixos-home.git ~/.dotfiles`
  - Switch to the main profile:
    - `home-manager switch --flake ~/.dotfiles/nix/.config/home-manager#neg`
  - Minimal “lite” profile:
    - `home-manager switch --flake ~/.dotfiles/nix/.config/home-manager#neg-lite`

- Profiles and features
  - Profiles are defined via `features.profile` (`full` by default, `lite` for headless/minimal).
  - Toggle stacks in `home.nix` under `features.*` (e.g., `features.gui.enable`, `features.mail.vdirsyncer.enable`).
  - GPG stack is controlled by `features.gpg.enable`.
  - Mozilla prefs: `features.web.prefs.fastfox.enable` gates FastFox-like tweaks (enabled in full, disabled in lite).

- Secrets (sops-nix)
  - Secrets are managed under `secrets/` with sops-nix, referenced from `home.nix` and modules.
  - Ensure your `age` key is available, then decrypt on activation. See `secrets/` and `.sops.yaml`.

## Common Commands

- Format: `just fmt`
- Checks: `just check`
- Lint only: `just lint`
- Switch HM: `just hm-neg` or `just hm-lite`

## Tips

- Hyprland reload is manual only (hotkey in `modules/user/gui/hypr/conf/bindings.conf`).
- Systemd user services use presets via `lib.neg.systemdUser.mkUnitFromPresets`.
- See AGENTS.md for helper APIs and conventions; STYLE.md for code style and commit messages.

## Viewers & Launchers

- Image viewers
  - `swayimg-first` wrapper is installed as `~/.local/bin/swayimg` and `~/.local/bin/sx`.
    - `sx` calls `swayimg-first` directly for convenience.
    - Hypr rules cover `swayimg` (float/size/position), and workspace routing includes it.
  - Legacy `sxivnc` wrapper tries `nsxiv → sxiv → swayimg` and is kept for older scripts.

- Rofi launcher
  - `~/.local/bin/rofi` wrapper ensures theme lookup works (relative to config or via XDG data).
  - `clip.rasi`, `sxiv.rasi` and required `win/*.rasi` are linked into `$XDG_DATA_HOME/rofi/themes` for `-theme` use.
  - If you want an emoji picker, provide your own `~/bin/rofi-emoji` script.

## Developer Notes

- Commit subjects must start with `[scope]` (enforced via `.githooks/commit-msg`).
  - Enable hooks: `just hooks-enable` or `git config core.hooksPath .githooks`

Commit message:

[docs] Update README/AGENTS: default browser table + lib.neg.web.{defaultBrowser,browsers}, unified Mozilla mkBrowser, rofi theme link gen, XDG helpers

nix/.config/home-manager/README.md, after:

# Home Manager Configuration

This repository contains the Home Manager setup (flakes) for the user environment. It includes modular configuration for GUI (Hyprland), CLI tools, media, mail, secrets, and more.

- Agent guide (how to work in this repo): see AGENTS.md
- Coding/style rules for Nix modules: see STYLE.md
- Feature flags and options: modules/features.nix (with hy3/Hyprland compatibility assert)

Quick tasks (requires `just`):
- Format: `just fmt`
- Checks: `just check`
- Lint only: `just lint`
- Switch HM: `just hm-neg` or `just hm-lite`

Notes:
- Hyprland auto-reload is disabled; reload manually via hotkey.
- Quickshell Settings.json is ignored and must not be committed.
 - Hyprland config is split under modules/user/gui/hypr/conf:
   - bindings/*.conf: apps, media, notify, resize, tiling, tiling-helpers, wallpaper, misc
   - init.conf, rules.conf, workspaces.conf, autostart.conf (with concise section headers)
   - Files are symlinked into ~/.config/hypr via Home Manager.
- Rofi: wrapper ~/.local/bin/rofi ensures theme lookup works (config-relative and XDG data themes).
  - Themes live in ~/.config/rofi and ~/.local/share/rofi/themes; Mod4+c uses the clip theme.
  - Theme links are generated from a compact list (no manual duplication in the module).

## Getting Started

- Prerequisites
  - Nix with flakes enabled (`nix --version` should work; set `experimental-features = nix-command flakes`).
  - Home Manager available (via flakes).
  - Optional: `just` for the convenience commands below.

- Clone and switch
  - Clone to your dotfiles path (assumed `~/.dotfiles`):
    - `git clone git@github.com:neg-serg/nixos-home.git ~/.dotfiles`
  - Switch to the main profile:
    - `home-manager switch --flake ~/.dotfiles/nix/.config/home-manager#neg`
  - Minimal “lite” profile:
    - `home-manager switch --flake ~/.dotfiles/nix/.config/home-manager#neg-lite`

- Profiles and features
  - Profiles are defined via `features.profile` (`full` by default, `lite` for headless/minimal).
  - Toggle stacks in `home.nix` under `features.*` (e.g., `features.gui.enable`, `features.mail.vdirsyncer.enable`).
  - GPG stack is controlled by `features.gpg.enable`.
  - Mozilla prefs: `features.web.prefs.fastfox.enable` gates FastFox-like tweaks (enabled in full, disabled in lite).
  - Default browser: set `features.web.default` to one of `floorp | firefox | librewolf | nyxt | yandex`.
    - Selected browser record is exposed as `config.lib.neg.web.defaultBrowser`.
    - The full map is available at `config.lib.neg.web.browsers` for reuse.

- Secrets (sops-nix)
  - Secrets are managed under `secrets/` with sops-nix, referenced from `home.nix` and modules.
  - Ensure your `age` key is available, then decrypt on activation. See `secrets/` and `.sops.yaml`.

## Common Commands

- Format: `just fmt`
- Checks: `just check`
- Lint only: `just lint`
- Switch HM: `just hm-neg` or `just hm-lite`

## Tips

- Hyprland reload is manual only (hotkey in `modules/user/gui/hypr/conf/bindings.conf`).
- Systemd user services use presets via `lib.neg.systemdUser.mkUnitFromPresets`.
- See AGENTS.md for helper APIs and conventions; STYLE.md for code style and commit messages.

## Viewers & Launchers

- Image viewers
  - `swayimg-first` wrapper is installed as `~/.local/bin/swayimg` and `~/.local/bin/sx`.
    - `sx` calls `swayimg-first` directly for convenience.
    - Hypr rules cover `swayimg` (float/size/position), and workspace routing includes it.
  - Legacy `sxivnc` wrapper tries `nsxiv → sxiv → swayimg` and is kept for older scripts.

- Rofi launcher
  - `~/.local/bin/rofi` wrapper ensures theme lookup works (relative to config or via XDG data).
  - `clip.rasi`, `sxiv.rasi` and required `win/*.rasi` are linked into `$XDG_DATA_HOME/rofi/themes` for `-theme` use.
  - If you want an emoji picker, provide your own `~/bin/rofi-emoji` script.

- Mozilla browsers
  - Firefox, LibreWolf and Floorp are configured via a single constructor `mkBrowser` in `modules/user/web/mozilla-common-lib.nix`.
  - Each browser module calls `common.mkBrowser { name, package, profileId ? "default"; }` and may extend with extras.
  - Use `settingsExtra`, `addonsExtra`, `policiesExtra`, `nativeMessagingExtra`, `profileExtra` for per-browser overrides.

## Developer Notes

- Commit subjects must start with `[scope]` (enforced via `.githooks/commit-msg`).
  - Enable hooks: `just hooks-enable` or `git config core.hooksPath .githooks`
